draft blog for DEH new features (#3230)
huggingface/blog: deh-2025.md

---

> title: "What's new in Dell Enterprise Hub"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Security and Performance for Dell On-Prem AI Builders"
```

thumbnail: /blog/assets/dell-enterprise-hub/thumbnail.jpg
authors:

>   - user: pagezyhf

Reviewer 2: Not sure if you want to solo-publish this one @pagezyhf, but adding our handles just in case, feel free to discard otherwise!

```suggestion
  - user: pagezyhf
  - user: alvarobartt
  - user: juanjucm
  - user: jeffboudier
```

---

> # What’s new in Dell Enterprise Hub: security, performance, and lifecycle at scale

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Security, Governance and Performance Updates for Dell On-Prem AI Builders
```

![Dell Enterprise Hub updates](/blog/assets/dell-enterprise-hub/thumbnail.jpg)

A year ago we introduced the [Dell Enterprise Hub](https://dell.huggingface.co), a new experience on Hugging Face to make it easy to train and deploy open models on-premise using Dell platforms.

Since that launch, Dell Enterprise Hub has grown from a model catalog into a full on-prem AI experience: you can browse open models, deploy them on Dell AI servers and AI PCs with optimized configurations, fine-tune them with your own data, and, more recently, even deploy complete AI applications through the Application Catalog.

Today we are introducing the next wave of capabilities, focused on three things that matter a lot to enterprises: **supply chain security, lifecycle management, and real-world performance**.

> You can try all of this today at [dell.huggingface.co](https://dell.huggingface.co).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the new features discussed below are available today - try them on [dell.huggingface.co](https://dell.huggingface.co).
```

## Securing the AI supply chain

> As more AI workloads move into production, teams care not just about which model they use, but also about how it gets into their infrastructure. What is inside the Docker image? Has the model repository been scanned? How are the weights pulled into the cluster? The new Dell Enterprise Hub experience brings these questions into the product itself, so platform, security and ML teams can share the same view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As more AI workloads move into production, teams care not just about which model they use, but also about how it gets into their infrastructure. What is inside the Docker image? Has the model repository been scanned? How are the weights pulled into the cluster? The new Dell Enterprise Hub experience answers these questions directly on the model page so that AI, infrastructure and security teams all have access to transparent information.
```

> Every model on the Hugging Face Hub is scanned for malware and unsafe serialization formats. Dell Enterprise Hub now surfaces a summary of these **repository scan results** directly in the model view. This gives security and compliance teams a starting point for their own reviews, without forcing them to hunt for the right tab or URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every model on the Hugging Face Hub is scanned for malware and unsafe serialization formats. Dell Enterprise Hub now surfaces a summary of these **repository scan results** directly in the model view. This gives security and compliance teams a starting point for their own reviews, without having to go into deep investigation.
```

![Model scan results](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/deh-2025/model-scan-results.png)

Models are only one piece of the supply chain. The container image that runs those models also needs to be monitored. Dell Enterprise Hub uses custom Docker images for inference and training, optimized per model and per Dell platform. These images are regularly scanned with AWS Inspector, and Dell Enterprise Hub now exposes **container scan status** alongside the deployment configuration.

![Container scan status](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/deh-2025/container-scan-status.png)

> To better govern model access, Dell Enterprise Hub now standardizes the use of **Hugging Face access tokens** in its deployment snippets. Token authenticates your calls to the Hub, ensures access to gated models is respected, and gives you higher rate limits when pulling model weights.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable Enterprises to implement model access governance, Dell Enterprise Hub now standardizes the use of **Hugging Face access tokens** in its deployment experiences. HF Tokens authenticate your calls to the Hub, ensure access permissions to gated models are respected, and give users higher rate limits when pulling model weights from Hugging Face.
```

![HF Token](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/deh-2025/hf-token.png)

> Together, these features give Dell Enterprise Hub users a simpler, more transparent way to secure their AI supply chain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Together, these features enable enterprises to build their own AI on-premises with improved security and governance. Dell Enterprise Hub offers a simple, transparent way to secure the AI model supply chain and govern model access.
```

> ## Good performance on day one

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Performance out of the box
```

> Once security is in place, the next question is performance. The goal for Dell Enterprise Hub is that you get solid performance for your chosen model and Dell hardware from day one, without having to become an expert in every inference engine and tuning parameter.

Author: went with "performance out of the box"!

> Dell Enterprise Hub started with containers built on top of Hugging Face **Text Generation Inference (TGI)**. Today, it can also choose engines like **vLLM** or **SGLang** based on the model and platform, and it generates deployment snippets with sensible default parameters. You pick the model and Dell platform; Dell Enterprise Hub picks a runtime and configuration that work well out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we launched Dell Enterprise Hub in May 2024, most model deployment containers were built on top of Hugging Face **Text Generation Inference (TGI)**. Today, each model is offered with the best available runtime, including **vLLM** or **SGLang** engines based on the model and Dell system, and the model deployment code snippets are preconfigured with tested parameters. You pick the model and Dell platform; Dell Enterprise Hub picks a runtime and configuration that works well out of the box.
```

> Looking ahead, Dell Enterprise Hub will become more opinionated about the default configuration parameters included in each deployment snippet, with presets for different use cases. You will still be able to override any of these values in the generated command if you want to experiment, but the goal is that teams get strong results on day one by simply copying the snippet into their Dell environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Looking ahead, Dell Enterprise Hub will become more opinionated about the default configuration parameters included in each deployment snippet, with presets for different use cases. You will still be able to override any of these values in the generated command if you want to experiment, but the goal is that teams get strong results on day one by simply copying the snippet into their Dell Platform.
```

> ## Lifecycle: decoupling containers and versioning

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Lifecycle: decoupling model weights from containers and container versioning
```

Author: true!

> The last big theme in this update is how Dell Enterprise Hub handles the lifecycle of containers and model weights over time. Enterprises need to patch base images, upgrade inference engines, rotate models and archive older assets, often under strict compliance requirements. To make that easier, Dell Enterprise Hub is moving to a **decoupled container architecture with explicit versioning**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another major update in Dell Enterprise Hub is the introduction of container versioning, and the decoupling of containers and model weights, to improve AI developer experience and lifecycle management. Without Dell Enterprise Hub, enterprises need to continuously patch base images, upgrade inference engines, rotate models and archive older assets, often under strict compliance requirements. To make that easier, Dell Enterprise Hub now implements **decoupled container architecture with explicit versioning**.
```

> Historically, many Dell Enterprise Hub images shipped with the model weights baked directly into the container. This made “first run” very simple, but it also led to large images and tighter coupling between the model and the runtime environment. From now on, new containers added to Dell Enterprise Hub are provided **without pre-downloaded weights**. The container includes the inference engine and all dependencies; the weights are pulled separately.

Reviewer 2: I'd align the wording on either using "images" or "containers", preferably "containers".

```suggestion
Historically, many Dell Enterprise Hub containers shipped with the model weights within the container. This made the "first run" very straight forward, but it also led to large images and tighter coupling between the model and the runtime environment. From now on, new containers added to Dell Enterprise Hub are provided **without pre-downloaded weights, as those are by default pulled from the Hugging Face Hub on runtime**. Anyway, the model weights can also be pre-downloaded from the Hugging Face Hub, then mounted into the container to prevent those from being pulled every time.
```

> Additionnaly, instead of relying on a single `latest` tag for containers, Dell Enterprise Hub now exposes **versioned tags**. This means you can pin an exact container tag in production, test a newer container in staging, and move between them on your own schedule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, instead of relying on a single `latest` tag for containers, Dell Enterprise Hub now exposes **versioned containers with tags**. This means you can pin an exact container tag in production, test a newer container in staging, and move between them on your own schedule. The tags also include detailed information on the underlying inference engine and the version, to make debugging and experimentation more transparent.
```

![Container Versioning](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/deh-2025/container-versioning.png)

## What’s next

These changes are another step toward making Dell Enterprise Hub the easiest way to run open models and applications on Dell infrastructure, fully on-premise and under your control.

We are continuing to expand support for new modalities and new Dell platforms, to refine default configurations around real-world goodput, and to deepen the integration between the Model Catalog, Application Catalog, Hugging Face Hub and programmatic tools.

> We are excited to keep building open, on-prem AI together!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will continue to add support for new models, new modalities and new Dell platforms. Expect improved configurations built around real-world latency and throughput requirements, and a deeper integration between the Dell Enterprise Hub and Hugging Face Enterprise.

To follow along, make sure to follow the [Dell Technologies organization](https://huggingface.co/DellTechnologies)!
```
